 
STUDENT CODE OF C ONDUCT:  
GENERAL POLICY   
Faculty of Medicine, KMITL  
 
1 
 
SECTION1:  TENANTS OF STUDENT CONDUCT  
1.1 Student Conduct Committee of the Faculty of Medicine, KMITL  
The Student Conduct Committee (SCC) is responsible for acting on behalf of the Faculty of Medicine in 
matters of student discipline. SCC deals with alleged instances of academic dishonesty and other student 
misconduct, in order to determine how best to resolve these allegations consistent with the goals and mission 
of the University as an educational and intellectual  community.  
 
1.2 MDKMITL  Mission  
It is the purpose of the student disciplinary system to further the educational mission of the Faculty by resolving 
alleged violations of the Code of Student Conduct, the Code of Academic Integrity and other applicable 
policies  regarding student behavior. There are numerous ways complaints about alleged student misconduct 
can be resolved. These include the formal disciplinary process as outlined in the Charter of the Student 
Disciplinary System, referral to the Faculty Mediation  Program, and referral to other Faculty resource offices.  
The SCC was created to help create a safe environment where academic life can flourish; and to promote the 
development of students.  
Our student disciplinary process is meant to set the standard for behavior at our Faculty and to determine a 
student's standing in the community. It is not meant to replace or substitute for the criminal justice system or 
other legal avenues. However, the student disciplinary process provides an important additional foru m to 
respond to the interests of the KMITL community. Our processes are designed to educate and, where 
appropriate, sanction those students who violate our rules. We seek both to promote a student's sense of 
responsibility by enforcing accountability, and to protect our community by, where necessary, removing or 
restricting those who may pose a threat to others.  
Finally, our Mediation Program is available to everyone at the Faculty of Medicine, KMITL to facilitate the 
constructive resolution of disputes (ex cluding Academic Integrity complaints or concerns covered by the 
Sexual Violence, Relationship Violence and Stalking Policy). Our intention is to emphasize the peaceful and 
productive handling of conflict when possible and where appropriate.  
 
1.3 The Thai Medical Student Code of Conduct  
As MDKMITL  is recognized and accredited  by both local and international governing bodies, it is our duty to 
adhere to and uphold the Student Code of Conduct of Thailand as set for by the Thai Medical Council and the 
Society of Medical Students as ou tlined below.  
 
 
STUDENT CODE OF C ONDUCT:  
GENERAL POLICY   
Faculty of Medicine, KMITL  
 
2 
 
 
The Thai Medical Student's Code of Conduct  
1.3.1  The Thai Medical Student's Code of Conduct was formally declared  on 1 November 2012 after 
consultations with medical educators, ethicists, alumni, and most importantly with medical students 
throughout Thailand and the Society of Medical Students of Thailand.  
  1.3.2 . Thai Medical Student's General Practice  
1. Put the benefit  of your fellow man before any personal gain.  
2. Be meritorious, with emphasis on discipline, patience, punctuality, integrity, responsibility, 
humility, gratitude, rationality, and appropriate appearance.  
3. Conduct yourself within professional bounds and as an  example to others in society.  
4. Be inquisitive, well rounded, and practical: stay up to date in order to improve your practices for 
the benefit of fellow humans.  
5. Be mindful of the cost and appropriateness when using resources and technology.  
6. Refrain from receiving any gifts or financial incentive which may affect your standing as a 
medical student, member of the students' union, member of your educational institution, or the 
standing of the medical profession.  
1.3.3 Thai Medical Student's Practice to Patien ts 
Medical students  must  respect patients' rights --for they are your teachers --by: 
1. Maintaining doctor -patient confidentiality except information used for educational purpose and 
obtained with informed consent,  
2. Communicating well and providing patients with appropriate information,  
3. Not seeking any gain from a patient except a chance to learn,  
4. Protecting patients and yourself from harm by recognizing the limitations of your abilities,  
5. Behaving professionally towards patients, respecting their emotions and  statutory rights.  
 

 
STUDENT CODE OF C ONDUCT:  
GENERAL POLICY   
Faculty of Medicine, KMITL  
 
3 
 
1.3.4 Thai Medical Student's Practice to Others  
1. Honor and respect the dignity of others, including your lecturers, seniors, juniors, and all other 
staff in all professions, institutions, and hospitals as well as all members of society.  
2. Help and assist your fellow medical students and members of other professions.  
 
Should any medical student  be caught in violation of  the Medical Student Code of Conduct, whether on 
campus or off campus, appropriate  disciplinary  will be taken on both Faculty and University levels.   
 
  
 
STUDENT CODE OF C ONDUCT:  
GENERAL POLICY   
Faculty of Medicine, KMITL  
 
4 
 
SECTION 2:  GENERAL POLICY  
2.1 General Faculty Policies  
 Be punctual, report to school and class on time.  
 Strive to be present every school day.   
 Respect each other at all times. Disagreements will be settled by discussing the problem and seeking a 
solution that is fai r to all concerned.   
 Faculty classrooms, meeting rooms, laboratories and common spaces will be kept clean and neat. Do 
not deface or damage faculty property. Students who damage or vandalize Faculty property will make 
restitution.   
 To ensure your safety an d the safety of everyone at the faculty, please walk, do not run. Be cautious of 
accident prone areas including stairs, main hallways, and blind corners to avoid injuries to yourself and 
others.  
 No unauthorized persons or non -students are allowed in the of ficial academic areas for the safety of 
students and staff at the faculty. Should these individuals be found in the academic areas, they will be 
asked to leave the premises or to wait in common lobby areas in the Faculty.  
 The following are NOT  allowed at the Faculty:  
1. Eating or Drinking: Students may only eat in designated areas on the ground floor of the 
faculty building. Eating food or snacks in classrooms, student study rooms and laboratories 
is strictly prohibited. The consumption of any bev erage  is not allowed in classrooms, with 
the exception of clear bottled water with cap. We encourage all students to drink downstairs 
during breaktime and leave unfinished beverages in your lockers (not on table tops).  
2. Strong smelling food and drink in the  common area as can be a distraction for other 
students, faculty and staff. Please be considerate to your friends and faculty and refrain 
from food that may disturb the academic environment.  
3. Open container beverages. Bottled water and personal tumblers wit h lids are allowed to 
prevent spills.  
4. Alcoholic beverages: Students are not allowed to drink or have in their possession any 
variety of alcohol. Any found will be confiscated and the student in question will be reported 
to the SCC.  
5. Leaving trash, personal  items and or other belongings in common areas, classrooms, study 
rooms and laboratories. Unattended items will be placed in the Lost and Found box which 
is emptied every Friday at 17:00. Students must help keep the common areas clean as our 
 
STUDENT CODE OF C ONDUCT:  
GENERAL POLICY   
Faculty of Medicine, KMITL  
 
5 
 
tidiness refle cts directly on the medical profession. Students are strongly encouraged to 
keep all belongings in their lockers to avoid personal belongings being stolen or discarded.  
6. Wearing improper attire i.e. sandals, flip flops, shorts, short skirts. As medical stud ents, a 
higher level of professionalism is demanded. The university dress code should be adhered 
to at all times. However, in cases of “Casual Thursday”, we at the faculty allow casual wear 
but appropriate to our medical profession. Students may propose Ca sual Thursday do’s 
and don’ts for approval of the Student Conduct Committee.  
7. Blankets, stuffed animals, pillows and other inappropriate personal belongings in 
classrooms, study rooms, laboratories and common areas.  
8. Using social media to chat or text with others during class or labs. It is not necessary to chat 
with friends while learning. This is not a conducive behavior to becoming a professional 
doctor. The faculty will be enforcing a strict social media and live streaming policy. To 
ensure the safety of  all students, faculty and staff, sharing of video or social media clips 
taken during class or laboratories is strictly prohibited. Confidentiality is essential to a 
successful education, and although it is tempting to share your endeavors with the rest of  
the social world, please understand that not everyone is a fan. Your posts could have 
extremely negative implications to yourself and the faculty. Please keep our faculty safe 
from any unnecessary cyber criticism or over exposure of our trademark class ac tivities.  
9. Leaving the classroom often to check phones or answer phone calls. Please restrain 
yourself to wait until break time or the end of class to respond (with exception to emergency 
situations).  
10. Cheating, Plagiarism, Fabrication, and Academic Dishone sty. The Faculty has zero 
tolerance for any violations of the Code of Academic Integrity.  (please see Code of 
Academic Integrity)  
11. Disrespecting other students, faculty and staff members of the faculty.  
12. Stay overnight at the Faculty. Faculty hours of opera tions are from 6:00 to 22:00 M -F. One 
week prior to examinations, the Faculty will extend its hours from 6:00 to 00:00.  
13. Leaving the lights and air conditioner on in empty classrooms, student rooms, laboratories 
or common spaces. The Faculty enforces the “L ast Out, Lights Off” policy where the last 
student or faculty member shall turn off the lights and air conditioner as they leave.  
14. IPads, computers, mobile/smart phones in laboratories, unless stated otherwise, to ensure 
safe and standardized Laboratory Pr otocol (please see Code of Laboratory Protocol).    
 
 
STUDENT CODE OF C ONDUCT:  
GENERAL POLICY   
Faculty of Medicine, KMITL  
 
6 
 
15. No unauthorized persons or non -students are allowed in the official academic areas for the 
safety of students and staff at the faculty. Should these individuals be found in the academic 
areas, they will be asked to leave the premises or to wait in common lobby areas in the 
Faculty.  
2.2 Attendance Policy  
Class attendance is mandatory and varies from instructor to instructor. The Faculty of Medicine, KMITL 
reserves the right to enforce Faculty attendance po licies that differ from University Attendance regulations 
due to the nature of the medical profession, which demands punctuality and accountability for one’s self and 
for those of future patients.  
2.3 Classrooms   
Classrooms are intended solely for learning  and academic purposes only. There will be no inappropriate 
behavior i.e. sleeping, eating, smoking, or any other elicit activities. Any student caught engaging any or all 
types of unacceptable activities will be punished according to faculty conduct guide lines.  
2.4 Common Areas  
Common areas should be clean, neat and tidy. Locker areas are intended for student use and any personal 
items must be stored within the designated areas to 1) ensure clean learning environments, 2) prevent from 
any theft, 3) promote  responsibility and accountability for all students.  
2.5 Small Discussion Rooms  
Small discussion rooms are intended solely for learning in small groups and conducting small group activities. 
Sleeping, eating, drinking, and other elicit activities will not be tolerated. Students that use small discussion 
rooms are responsible for keeping rooms clean and tidy. Lights and air conditioning must be turned on/off 
after use. Should there be any items left inside, they will be placed in the designated lost and foun d. 
2.6 Student Union Room  
The student union room is intended for the use of student leisure and activities. It should be kept neat and 
tidy. Students are responsible for cleaning up and placing items in their appropriate/designated areas. Any 
elicit activi ties is strictly prohibited in the student union room. Food and beverages are not allowed.  
2.7 Book Checkout Policy  
Any student that wishes to checkout books from the student library must sign the sheet and return the 
borrowed book(s) within a 1 -week peri od. This allows all students to have equal access to all learning 
materials. Students are not allowed to keep books to themselves; and shall be responsible for any lost or 
stolen property. Books that are lost will be subject for financial reimbursement to the Faculty of Medicine, 
KMITL  
  
 
STUDENT CODE OF C ONDUCT:  
GENERAL POLICY   
Faculty of Medicine, KMITL  
 
7 
 
2.8 Locker Room  
Lockers on the ground floor of the Faculty of Medicine, KMITL are for student use only. Personal belongings 
may be placed and stored in lockers. Keys are issued to each student upon registration and students  must be 
accountable for any loss of keys.  
2.9 Lost & Found  
All items found left in classrooms, common areas, small discussion rooms will be placed in the lost & found 
box. Contents in the lost & found box will be emptied on a weekly basis. No hard feelin gs if your belongings 
are discarded in the trash.  
2.10 Dress Code  
Students of the Faculty of Medicine shall adhere strictly to the University Dress Code. Furthermore, as future 
physicians, each student must dress appropriately, not sloppily. Shirt tails m ust be tucked into pants/skirts. 
Uniforms must be pressed and wrinkle -free. Personal hygiene is of utmost importance. No extreme or 
inappropriate hair coloring or piercings for any student. Male students are encouraged to keep short hair and 
to be clean sh aven. Female students are encouraged to wear appropriate length skirts and loose -fitting 
university shirts to avoid any external objectification. Although the University allow introduces Casual 
Thursdays for students, please see the MD@KMITL Casual Thursda y Dress Code for proper attire 
requirements and guidelines. Any violations of the normal or Casual Thursday Dress Code will be subject to 
the point reprimand system (detailed in the Student Disciplinary Action section).  
2.11 Sexual Harassment Policy  
The Fa culty of Medicine, KMITL is a ZERO -TOLERANCE institution. Any sexual misconduct or inappropriate 
behavior must be reported immediately to any KMITL staff or administration team so that immediate action 
can be taken. It is the Faculty’s duty to ensure the s afety and well being of all of our students. Standard 
protocol will be co -created by instructors and students to ensure a proper channel for any sexual harassment 
claims.  
2.12 Faculty Hours  
The Faculty of Medicine, KIMITL is open daily from 7:00 to 22:00 during normal semester conditions. Students 
may enjoy extended Faculty hours from 7:00 to 00:00 one week prior and the period during examinations 
week. Sleeping over at the Faculty is strictl y prohibited for student safety.  
  
 
STUDENT CODE OF C ONDUCT:  
GENERAL POLICY   
Faculty of Medicine, KMITL  
 
8 
 
2.13 Student Disciplinary Action  
Students who fail to comply or consciously violate any of the policies of the Faculty of Medicine, KMITL 
Student Conduct Code will be dealt by the following:  
1. The severity of the infracti on will be taken into consideration in determining the specific consequence. 
A point deduction system is in place to deduct a student for violation of any of the policies, guidelines 
and dress codes in this document. This disciplinary sanction will affect the academic achievement of 
the student according to the severity and frequency of the infractions. Should a student fall near or 
below the point requirements, responsible faculty members shall intervene to warn students of 
progressive disciplinary action including suspension and expulsion from the university.  
2. The number of times the offense has been repeated will be taken into account in determining the 
specific consequence. Progressive discipline will be used for repeat offenders.  
3. Students will be counsel ed in addition to any consequence.  
 
 
  
 
STUDENT CODE OF C ONDUCT:  
GENERAL POLICY   
Faculty of Medicine, KMITL  
 
9 
 
SECTION 3: ACADEMIC INTEGRITY  
Since the Faculty of Medicine, KMITL is an academic community, its fundamental purpose is the pursuit of 
knowledge. Essential to the success of this educational mission is a commitment to  the principles of academic 
integrity. Every member of the KMITL community is responsible for upholding the highest standards of honesty 
at all times. Students, as members of the community, are also responsible for adhering to the principles and 
spirit of the following Code of Academic Integrity.   
Academic Dishonesty Definitions  
Activities that have the effect or intention of interfering with education, pursuit of knowledge, or fair evaluation 
of a student’s performance are prohibited. Examples of such acti vities include but are not limited to the 
following definitions:  
3.1 Cheating : using or attempting to use unauthorized assistance, material, or study aids in examinations or 
other academic work or preventing, or attempting to prevent, another from using au thorized assistance, 
material, study aids or copying answers from other students. Example: using a cheat sheet in a quiz or exam, 
altering a graded exam and resubmitting it for a better grade, etc.  
3.2 Plagiarism : using the ideas, data, or language of anot her without specific or proper acknowledgment. 
Example: copying another person’s paper, article, or computer work and submitting it for an assignment, 
cloning someone else’s ideas without attribution, failing to use quotation marks where appropriate, etc.  
3.3 Fabrication : submitting contrived or altered information in any academic exercise. Example: making up 
data for an experiment, fudging data, citing nonexistent articles, contriving sources, etc.  
3.4 Multiple submission : submitting, without prior permission, any work submitted to fulfill another academic 
requirement.  
3.5 Misrepresentation of academic records : misrepresenting or tampering with or attempting to tamper with 
any portion of a student’s transcripts or academic record, either before or af ter coming to the Faculty of 
Medicine, KMITL. Example: forging a change of grade slip, tampering with computer records, falsifying 
academic information on one’s resume, etc.  
3.6 Facilitating academic dishonesty : knowingly helping or attempting to help anot her violate any provision 
of the Code. Example: working together on a take -home exam, etc.  
3.7 Unfair advantage : attempting to gain unauthorized advantage over fellow students in an academic 
exercise. Example: gaining or providing unauthorized access to ex amination materials, obstructing or 
interfering with another student’s efforts in an academic exercise, lying about a need for an extension for an 
exam or paper, continuing to write even when time is up during an exam, destroying or keeping library 
materia ls for one’s own use, etc.  
 
STUDENT CODE OF C ONDUCT:  
GENERAL POLICY   
Faculty of Medicine, KMITL  
 
10 
 
If a student is unsure whether his action(s) constitute a violation of the Code of Academic Integrity, then it is 
that student’s responsibility to consult with the instructor of the Student Conduct Committee (SCC) to clarify 
any ambiguities.  
(Source: PENN Almanac, September 10, 1996, Volume 43, No. 3 and adopted by The Faculty of Medicine, 
KMITL 2019)  
 
STUDENT CODE OF C ONDUCT:  
GENERAL POLICY   
Faculty of Medicine, KMITL  
 
11 
 
SECTION 4: LABORATORY POLICY  
Rule #1 – WALK  
When going into the lab make sure to WALK.  There will be no running in the lab.  Ther e will be materials and 
equipment out that can break if you accidently knock into them.  There may be electrical wires on the ground 
that you may trip over as well.  Please WALK and be careful.  
Rule #2 - PROPER LAB ATTIRE  
You have been given a schedule of when our labs will be held.  The day before we do a lab I will remind you 
so that you can come to class prepared with proper lab attire.  Proper attire is as follows:  
CLOSED TOED SHOES - flip-flops, sandals, peep -toe shoes, are not allowed in the lab area.   You must wear 
closed toed shoes on the days we have lab.  If you do not have appropriate footwear on then you cannot 
participate in lab.  
HAIR MUST BE TIED BACK - if you have long hair it must be worn up in a ponytail on the days we have lab.  
SAFETY GOGGL ES - these will be provided for you to be used in class.  The goggles are located in the 
cabinets in the lab equipment area.  Each pair of goggles is numbered to match the hooks they are on.  When 
putting them back make sure to put them on the same hooks.  
LAB COATS - these will be provided for you to be used in class.  The coats are hanging up on the hooks 
below the goggles cabinets.  They are numbered to match the hooks they are on.  When putting them back 
make sure to put them on the same hook.  
Rule #3 - HANDLING CHEMICALS  
When handling chemicals during lab it is important to proceed with caution.  Wear gloves whenever pouring 
chemicals or handling them.  If there is a spill be sure to let the teacher know.  If you have to dispose of 
chemicals, always use the waste containers provided on your lab tables.  NEVER pour the chemicals back 
into the container you got it from.  If you do, whatever was in your container could cause a chemical reaction 
with the chemical in the original container.  
Never smell a chemi cal directly.  You can waft or fan the fumes toward yourself.  You can do this by waving 
your hand over the flask or beaker (I will demonstrate).  
Rule #4 - HANDLING EQUIPMENT  
It is important that when you are using different lab equipment, you handle them with care.  Microscopes 
should be held with both hands, one underneath and one on the arm (see microscope diagram).  When 
handling glassware be sure to hold it with both hands when can.  If something is hot, then make sure to use 
tongs.  NEVER use your han ds. 
Rule #5 - BROKEN GLASS  
 
STUDENT CODE OF C ONDUCT:  
GENERAL POLICY   
Faculty of Medicine, KMITL  
 
12 
 
If you break a piece of glassware DO NOT TOUCH IT.  Tell the teacher IMMEDIATELY when it breaks.  They 
will then come over and properly dispose of it.  
Rule #6 - EYE WASH/SHOWER  
If chemicals or particles get in your eyes, WALK to the eye wash station and rinse out your eyes for 15 minutes.  
Make sure that you keep your eyes OPEN when you rinse them.  
If chemicals get onto your skin, WALK to the shower station and pull on the red handle.  Stand under the 
shower and rinse off your bod y for 15 minutes.  
ALWAYS make sure to inform your instructor when something like this happens.  
Rule #7 - FIRE SAFETY  
In the event of a fire during lab, IMMEDIATELY tell the teacher.  WALK over to the fire extinguisher, pull out 
the safety pin, aim the nozz le towards the fire and push the handle down (I will demonstrate this for you). 
Empty out the entire tank.   
Rule #8 - EATING/DRINKING IN LAB  
There will be NO eating or drinking during lab.  There are days that we may be using chemicals and I do not 
want y ou to get sick.  Also, the lab tables may have had chemicals on them previously that were not properly 
cleaned up so you should not eat or drink on them either.  
Sometimes we will be using food as materials in lab, this too should not be eaten unless I tel l you it is ok.  The 
food may have been stored next to chemicals in the lab and could be contaminated.    
Rule #9 - CLEANING UP  
Once lab is over, I will give you enough time to clean your lab table.  If you used any chemicals make sure to 
dump them into th e waste container at your lab table.  DO NOT POUR THEM DOWN THE SINK!  Once the 
beaker, flask, or test tube is empty then you can rinse it out in the sink at your lab table and use the brush to 
wash it.  PLEASE ONLY TURN THE FAUCET ON DURING CLEAN UP TIME!   Make sure you sponge down 
your lab area as well.  Any materials like microscopes or petri dishes will be put back where they belong (I will 
direct you to where they need to be on the day of the lab).  
DO NOT FORGET - safety goggles and lab coats are to be  hung up on the same hooks that you got them 
from.  The numbers on the goggles and coats should match the hooks they go on.  
Rule #10 - HAND WASHING  
Before leaving the lab ALWAYS wash your hands.  Make sure you use soap and water and scrub your hands 
thorou ghly at the handwashing station.  Some of the materials we will be using could be harmful to you, so it 
is important that you wash your hands so you do not get sick.  
 
STUDENT CODE OF C ONDUCT:  
GENERAL POLICY   
Faculty of Medicine, KMITL  
 
13 
 
Rule #11 -NO IPADS, TABLETS OR OTHER MOBILE DEVICES  
Mobile devices are not allowed in labs (unless stated otherwise) to ensure safety and prevent biological 
contamination  from bacteria, yeast, viruses, or even cross -contamination  from a different strain of cells from 
another experiment.  
LAB CAN BE FUN!  JUST BE SAFE!  
When we are in lab, it is ve ry important that you follows these 10 rules.  Lab time is supposed to be fun and 
as long as we all follow the rules, then no one will get hurt . 
  
 
STUDENT CODE OF C ONDUCT:  
GENERAL POLICY   
Faculty of Medicine, KMITL  
 
14 
 
SECTION 5: DRESS CODE POLICY  
We at the Faculty of Medicine, KMITL shall maintain the utmost of professional conduct and dress according 
to professional medical standards. Students shall adhere strictly to the following dress code policies while 
on campus and at the Faculty.  
5.1 Official university uniforms* or official MDKMITL scrubs must be worn at all times , with 
the exception of Casual Thursdays, or unless otherwise stated.  
5.1.1 Official Ceremony Dress Code *,** 
Female  Male  
 
Tidy Hairstyles:  
- Appropriate Hair Color  
- Female: Tied Hair  
 Tidy Hairstyles:  
- Appropriate Hair Color  
- Appropriate Length  
White Shirt:  
- No Folded Sleeves  
- No Back Foldings  
 White Shirt:  
- Left Pocket  
- Long Sleeves  
- Sleeve Length: Wrist  
 
Accessories:  
- University Button  
- University Pin  
 University Necktie  
 
Belt: 
- Brown Leather Strap  
- University Buckle  Belt: 
- Black Leather Strap  
- University Buckle  
Skirt:  
- Navy Blue Straight Skirt with Back Cut  
- Length: Cover the Knees  
 Pants:  
- Black Straight Pants  
- Length: Reach the Shoes  
 
Female Footwear:  
- No Socks or No -Show Socks  
- Black Leather Square -Toed Court Heels  
- Heel Height: Less Than 2 Inches  
- Thickness: Less than 10 Baht Coin  
 Male Footwear:  
- Black Socks  
- Sock Length: Cover the Ankle  
- Plain Black Leather Loafers  
 
 
*Please refer to official University dress code requirements . 
**Please see Student Dress Code visual on pg. 13.  
 
STUDENT CODE OF C ONDUCT:  
GENERAL POLICY   
Faculty of Medicine, KMITL  
 
15 
 
 

 
STUDENT CODE OF C ONDUCT:  
GENERAL POLICY   
Faculty of Medicine, KMITL  
 
16 
 
5.1.2 Student Uniform Dress Code *,** 
Female  Male  
 
Tidy Hairstyles:  
- Appropriate Hair Color  
- Female: Tied Hair  
 Tidy Hairstyles:  
- Appropriate Hair Color  
- Appropriate Length  
White Shirt:  
- No Folded Sleeves  
- No Back Foldings  
 White Shirt:  
- Left Pocket  
- Long Sleeves  
- Sleeve Length: Wrist  
- Short Sleeve  
 
Accessories:  
- University Button  
- University Pin  
- Faculty Pendant  
 University Necktie (optional)  
 
Belt: 
- Brown Leather Strap  
- University Buckle  Belt: 
- Black Leather Strap  
- University Buckle  
Skirt:  
- Black A -Line/Pencil Skirt  
- Black Pleated Skirt  
- Navy Skirt with Back Cut  
- Length: Cover the Knees  
 Pants:  
- Black Straight Pants  
- Length: Reach the Shoes  
- Not too Tight  
- Not too Short  
 
Female Footwear:  
- Plain White Sneakers  
   - White Socks  
   - Sock Length: Over the Ankle  
- Black Leather Square -Toed Court Heels  
- Heel Height: Less Than 2 Inches  
- Thickness: Less than 10 Baht Coin  
 Male Footwear:  
- Plain Black Leather Loafers  
- Plain White Sneakers  
- Plain Black Sneakers  
- Plain Dark Sneakers  
- Black/White Socks  
   - Sock Length: Cover the Ankle  
 
*Please refer to official University dress code requirements  
**Please see Student Dress Code visual on pg. 15.  
  
 
STUDENT CODE OF C ONDUCT:  
GENERAL POLICY   
Faculty of Medicine, KMITL  
 
17 
 
 

 
STUDENT CODE OF C ONDUCT:  
GENERAL POLICY   
Faculty of Medicine, KMITL  
 
18 
 
5.2 Casual Thursday Dress Code Policy * 
In light of the university -wide Casual Thursday policy, we at the Faculty of Medicine, KMITL shall dress 
accordingly in a manner that is becoming of young medical professionals. Any violations of the normal or 
Casual Thursday dress code will result by reprimand and point deduction which is directly related to student 
overall performance. We trust that all students will exercise discretion and learn how to command respect with 
our appearance. Thank you for your cooperation.  
5.2.1 Upper Wea r 
- T-shirt and V -necks are allowed  
- Crop top shirts are not allowed  
- Sleeveless shirt are not allowed  
- Shirts with inappropriate words or pictures are not allowed  
- Camisoles can only be worn with a sweater or cardigan to cover.  
 
5.2.2 Bottom wear  
- Jeans are allowed but cannot have any tips or holes  
- Long pants should be no higher than 3 inches above the ankle  
- Skirts should be knee length, not shorter  
- Shorts are not allowed  
 
5.2.3 Shoes  
The following can be worn:  
-Sneakers, heels and any type o f shoe that covers the toe and the heel  
- Sandal with strap heels  
The following are Not Allowed  at any time : 
- Flip flops of any kind  
- Crocs  
 
5.2.4 Miscellaneous  
The following are Not Allowed:  
- Pajamas or sleep wear of any kind  
- Sports attire and workout clothing including tights and sports bras or extra short shorts  
- Clothes that are provocative and inappropriate for school and daytime environments  
 
5.2.5 Attire in the Laboratories  
Students must fulfill all required lab safety measures by:  
(1) Co vering all exposed skin  
(2) Wearing lab coats at all time  
(3) Wearing long pants  
(4) Wearing shoes that cover the feet entirely  
 
*Please see Casual Thursday Dress Code visual on pg. 17   
 
STUDENT CODE OF C ONDUCT:  
GENERAL POLICY   
Faculty of Medicine, KMITL  
 
19 
 
 

 
STUDENT CODE OF C ONDUCT:  
GENERAL POLICY   
Faculty of Medicine, KMITL  
 
20 
 
5.3 Online Class Dress Code Policy  
Medical professionalism is required for both onsite and offsite learning, therefore, an online learning dress 
code is required to maintain order.  
 
5.3.1 Online Learning Dress Code  
- Students must wear official university uniforms during online sessions  
- No T -shirts  
- No Tank Tops  
- No in appropriate dressing that will distract other students and instructors  
 
5.3.2 Online Learning Dress Code while Onsite at the Faculty  
5.3.2.1  In the event that students are participating in online classes at the Faculty, all students that 
wish to com e on campus at the Faculty must abide by the university and Faculty dress code policies. 
No exceptions.  
 
5.3.2.2  Should a student come to the Faculty dressed in appropriately, they will be asked to leave and 
may only return when properly dressed according to the Faculty Dress Code as mentioned in the 
Stude nt Code of Conduct here within.  
 
5.4 Announcement of King Mongkut's Institute of Technology Ladkrabang on The Dress 
Code of Students Whose Gender Identity or Sexual Orientation Does Not Match Their Birth  
Gender (2021 ) 
 
King Mongkut's Institute of Technology Ladkrabang is an educational institution that recognizes and respects 
the rights and freedom of students according to human rights both nationally and internationally in promoting 
gender equality, non -discrimination, and equality of students at all levels in accordance with Gender Equality 
Act and United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).  
It is expedient to issue guidelines for student treatment and student dress code for those whose gender id entity 
or sexual orientation does not match their birth gender to prevent discrimination based on gender identity, to 
protect people from being insulted by honor, reputation, and human dignity, as well as to protect the right to 
freedom of expression, iden tity, speech, gestures, dress, physical appearance regardless of the person's 
gender identity or sexual orientation.  Therefore, the university stipulate this guideline for the dress code of 
students whose gender identity or sexual orientation does not mat ch their birth gender.  
By virtue of Section  34 (1) of the King Mongkut's Institute of Technology Ladkrabang Act 2008 following the 
meeting no.  4-5 / 2021  on May  13, 2021,  the approval was given, and the announcement was made as 
follows:  
 
STUDENT CODE OF C ONDUCT:  
GENERAL POLICY   
Faculty of Medicine, KMITL  
 
21 
 
5.4.1  Article 1 : This announcement is called "Announcement of King Mongkut's Institute of 
Technology Ladkrabang on The Dress Code of Students Whose Gender Identity or Sexual 
Orientation Does Not Match Their Birth Gender,  2021”  
5.4.2  Article 2 :  This announcement is effecti ve from the Academic Year  2021 onwards.  
5.4.3  Article  3: All announcements or any other regulations that have been prescribed in this 
announcement or which contradicts to this announcement, this announcement shall prevail.  
5.4.4  Article  4: As stated in thi s announcement:  
- Institute means King Mongkut's Institute of Technology Ladkrabang  
- Personnel means government officials and all types of employees of King Mongkut's Institute of 
Technology Ladkrabang  
- Student means a student of King Mongkut's Institute  of Technology Ladkrabang  
- Graduate means a graduate of King Mongkut's Institute of Technology Ladkrabang including Master 
and Doctorate of King Mongkut's Institute of Technology Ladkrabang.  
5.4.5  Article 5: Personnel should treat students whose gender id entity or sexual orientation does not 
match their birth gender with regard to human dignity, rights, liberties and gender equality; therefore, 
bullying, insulting, abusing, oppressing, harassing students whose gender identity or sexual 
orientation does not  match their birth gender are considered a disciplinary offense including 
outsource employees who are employed by the company through the institution.  
5.5.6  Article 6 : Students whose gender identity or sexual orientation does not match their birth gender 
have the right to dress in normal student uniform, ceremony uniforms, เครื่องแบบชุดประลอง , or a specific 
uniform of a faculty or college to attend class, examinations, workshops or contact any office in the 
institution according to their sexual orientation which must be dressed in an orderly manner and in 
accordance with the regulations of the institution on student uniforms.  
5.5.7  Article 7 : Graduates of institutions whose gender identity or sexual orientation does not match 
their birth gender have the righ t to dress in a formal gown to attend graduation ceremony in 
accordance with their sexual orientation which must be dressed in an orderly manner and in 
accordance with the regulations of the institution on academic standing gown, pins, and position 
gowns.  
5.5.8  Article 8 : Any other offices of the institution is prohibited to issue any announcements, 
regulations, or prescribe any guidelines about the dress of students and graduates with unfair 
discrimination against students whose gender identity or sexual o rientation does not match their birth 
gender.  
 
STUDENT CODE OF C ONDUCT:  
GENERAL POLICY   
Faculty of Medicine, KMITL  
 
22 
 
5.5.9  Article 9 : The President shall be in charge of this announcement and have the power to 
predicate issues or situations related to compliance with this announcement.  
 
 
Announced on June 14, 2021  from KMITL   
 
STUDENT CODE OF C ONDUCT:  
GENERAL POLICY   
Faculty of Medicine, KMITL  
 
23 
 
SECTION 6: ONLINE CLASSROOM POLICY  
We understand that online learning during the COVID -19 pandemic is challenging however, we strive to 
provide the most comparable course instruction as possible. Therefore, the instructors, reserve the right to 
enforce th e following online classroom policies to simulate the most accurate classroom/class instruction 
environment:  
6.1  Tardiness & Attendance for Online Learning  
Be ON -TIME! Class begins promptly at the designated start time. Please read and understand the  
   following tardy/absence policy:  
a. Online class will be open for your entrance via ZOOM or Google Meet 15 minutes prior to 
the start time (unless otherwise stated)  
b. You will not be permitted entry to the online any later than the designated start time of 
class (no excuses because everyone is already at home i.e. no reason to be late.)  
c. Late comers are allowed in at the instructor’s discretion  
d. 1 late=1 absence  
e. Late 3 times=3 absences= loss of eligibility to take final examinations  
f. More than 3 absences from onlin e class will be treated according to the official Faculty 
and University tardy policies.  
 
6.2 Visual Confirmation of Class Participation with Mobile Device Cameras  
1. All students must check in and turn on their video cameras with muted microphones for the 
duration of the class.  
2. You may turn off your cameras during break time.  
6.3 Online Learning Dress Code  
6.3.1  All students must be ready to study as if we were meeting on campus therefore, dress in a 
proper manner for class (no pajamas or any sleep wear)  
6.3.2 For o nline learning done onsite , all students shall abide by Faculty and University dress code 
policies stated in section 5.3.2 of the Student Code of Conduct.  
6.4 Mobile Phone Use  
No mobile phone/device use in class (unless otherwise stated).  
 
STUDENT CODE OF C ONDUCT:  
GENERAL POLICY   
Faculty of Medicine, KMITL  
 
24 
 
 
6.5 Note Taking   
You are still encouraged to take notes with pens/pencils/paper notebooks as your primary writing and 
note-taking instruments.  
6.6 Academic Integrity for Online Learning  
There is a ZERO -TOLERANCE policy for c heating, plagiarism and other viola tions of the academic code 
of conduct will not be tolerated and will result in an automatic F grade. (please see Academic Integrity 
Code , Section 3 ) 
*A message to the students : 
Online learning as well as online teaching is a new frontier that we all must understand and help to improve. 
It is challenging enough to learn how to write, especially how to write in a scientific manner. Studying online 
only compounds these challenges, and for this, we are empathetic to your situation as students in this day in 
age. 
As your instructors, we all do our best to make the knowledge sharing experience as potent as possible 
however, with the format of online learning itself, there are many distractions and elements that we cannot 
control. Therefore, it is with great since rity that we ask our students to do your best to eliminate or minimize 
the distractions i.e. social media, noise from housemates, side chats via LINE and Messenger etc. and ask 
you to create a learning environment that is conducive and most similar to a re al learning situation via the 
following:  
1. Disable your LINE or other social media chats with constant notifications.  
2. Find a quiet spot in the house where you cannot be distracted.  
3. Turn off all other mobile devices while studying.  
4. Use pen and paper to take n otes (this will really help with concentration and writing).  
5. Ask questions if you are unsure (since we cannot physically be in the same room, it is difficult to see who 
is lost and who gets the idea).  
 
Please help us to help you.  
 
 
  
 
STUDENT CODE OF C ONDUCT:  
GENERAL POLICY   
Faculty of Medicine, KMITL  
 
25 
 
SECTION 7: STUDENT VOL UNTEERING  
Student Volunteers are an integral part of our Faculty activities. We appreciate all students who wish to offer 
their help, support and time to assist instructors and staff for annual and special event s including but not 
pertaining to only; MDKMI TL Annual Open House Event, MDKMITL Admissions Event, Prince Mahidol Day 
etc. 
7.1  All volunteering activities may be listed in the e -portfolio system and count for extracurricular 
work/activities.  
7.2 Student Volunteers are NOT obligated to volunteer.  
7.2.1  Students may  decline to volunteer and  notify activity coordinators of conditions or scheduling 
conflicts without any negative repercussions.  
7.3 Students will NOT be financial compensated for their help.  
7.4 Photographs of students taken while fulfilling their duties during the Faculty activity may be used in 
various Faculty promotion campaigns.  
7.5 All students will be required to sign a STUDENT VOLUNTEER CONSENT FORM prior to the event.  
 